python/grains: add mentoring notes (#2169)
exercism/website-copy: tracks/python/exercises/grains/mentoring.md

## Reasonable solution By calculating power.

> ```

Reviewer: Give the language for the fence blocks…

~~~suggestion
```python
~~~

def square(number):
    """
    This Function is going to return the number of grains on a given square number.
    :parama: int square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.
    :return int amount of grains present on the give square number(number).
    """
    if(number<1 or number>64):
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2**(number-1)

def total():
    """
    This Function is going to return the total number of grains on the chess board.
    :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
    """
    #as 2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....2^n=(2^(n+1))-1
    return 2**(64)-1
```

### For function square(number):
as we did 2**(number-1) on block one there will be only 1 grain, 2 power 0 = 1.
on block 2 there will 2 and on block 3 there will be 4 which is equal to 2 power 1 and 2 power 2 respectively.
Hence gerenalized **2 power (number-1)**.

### For function total():
there is a gerenal formula:
**2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....+2^n=(2^(n+1))-1**.

## Solution using Bitwise left operator

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

def square(number):
    if(number<1 or number>64):
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2<<(number-1)

def total():
    #as 2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....2^n=(2^(n+1))-1
    return 2<<(64)-1
```
Left shift bitwise operator

> 1<<0 --> int binary 0 0 1 --> decimal 1 =2^0

Reviewer: Perhaps give some space around the operators, for readability.

Reviewer: This section might be more presentable as an example using REPL syntax, and code block fencing?

Author: Now, check if it is okey?

# Reasonable solution by calculating power.

```python

> def square(number):
>     """
>     This function must return the number of grains on a given square number.
>     :param: int square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.
>     :return int amount of grains present on the give square number(number).
>     """

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
def square(number):
    """Return the number of grains on a given square number.
    
    :param: int - square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.
    :return int - amount of grains present on the give square number(number).
    """
```

    if number < 1 or number > 64:
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2**(number - 1)

def total():

>     """
>     This function must return the total number of grains on the chess board.
>     :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
>     """

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    """Return the total number of grains on the chess board.
    
    :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
    """
```

>     """
>     This function must return the total number of grains on the chess board.
>     :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
>     """

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    """Return the total number of grains on the chess board.
    
    :return int - total number of grains a chess board can contain.
    """
```

## Reasonable solution By calculating power.

```python
def square(number):
    """

>     This Function is going to return the number of grains on a given square number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This Function must return the number of grains on a given square number.
```

    :parama: int square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.
    :return int amount of grains present on the give square number(number).
    """
    if(number<1 or number>64):
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2**(number-1)

def total():
    """

>     This Function is going to return the total number of grains on the chess board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This Function must return the total number of grains on the chess board.
```

    :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
    """
    #as 2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....2^n=(2^(n+1))-1
    return 2**(64)-1
```

### For function square(number):

> as we did 2**(number-1) on block one there will be only 1 grain, 2 power 0 = 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as we did `2**(number -`1)` on block one there will be only 1 grain, 2 to the power of 0 equals 1.
```

> on block 2 there will 2 and on block 3 there will be 4 which is equal to 2 power 1 and 2 power 2 respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on block 2 there will 2 and on block 3 there will be 4 which is equal to 2 to the power of 1, and 2 to the power of 2, respectively.
```

> Hence gerenalized **2 power (number-1)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence generalized, **2 power (number-1)**.
```

### For function total():

> there is a gerenal formula:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there is a general formula:
```

But is it a general formula, or is it sufficient to just state that we have the formula, without the "general" word being used?

**2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....+2^n=(2^(n+1))-1**.

## Solution using Bitwise left operator
```python
def square(number):
    if(number<1 or number>64):
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:

>         return 2<<(number-1)

Reviewer: Is it customary to squeeze the operations together without space?  I find it cluttered, and harder to read (as my eyes have a hard time differentiating from each "word" without the space).

Reviewer: This is still outstanding.

It is the code block in general, though.

Can you review this as a whole and see what you think?

```python
def square(number):
     if number < 1 or number > 64:
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2 << number - 1
```
The precedence is not changed by the parenthesis, and so slow down the reader to see what is special here.  It does require that one becomes familiar with order of operations for what we use, but this is not unreasonable.  It is better than overuse of parenthesis, often touted as "but for the readability" which turns out to be not so true.

def total():

>     #as 2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....2^n=(2^(n+1))-1

Reviewer: Even as a comment, we should space our "words".

>     return 2<<(64)-1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return 2 << 64 - 1
```

# Reasonable solution by calculating power.

```python
def square(number):
    """
    This function must return the number of grains on a given square number.
    :param: int square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.
    :return int amount of grains present on the give square number(number).
    """
    if number < 1 or number > 64:
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2**(number - 1)

def total():
    """
    This function must return the total number of grains on the chess board.
    :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
    """
    # As 2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 + 2^3 +....+ 2^n = (2^(n + 1)) - 1.
    return 2**64 - 1
```

## For function `square(number)` :

As we did `2**(number - 1)` on block one there will be only 1 grain, 2 to the power of 0 equals 1.
On block 2 there will 2 and on block 3 there will be 4 which is equal to 2 to the power of 1, and 2 to the power of 2, respectively.
Hence generalized, **2 to the power of (number-1)**.

## For function `total()` :

> There is a general formula : 

Reviewer: This is the first place that there is trailing white space.  Here is a diff that can be applied to address the rest of them as well:

```diff
diff --git i/tracks/python/exercises/grains/mentoring.md w/tracks/python/exercises/grains/mentoring.md
index 3e7e7ab2..5696c77a 100644
--- i/tracks/python/exercises/grains/mentoring.md
+++ w/tracks/python/exercises/grains/mentoring.md
@@ -29,7 +29,7 @@ Hence generalized, **2 to the power of (number-1)**.
 
 ## For function `total()` :
 
-There is a general formula : 
+There is a general formula :
 **2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 + 2^3 +....+ 2^n = (2^(n + 1)) - 1**.
 
 # Solution using bitwise left operator.
@@ -39,8 +39,8 @@ def square(number):
     if number < 1 or number > 64:
         raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
     else:
-        return 1 << number - 1 
-        
+        return 1 << number - 1
+
 def total():
     # As 2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 + 2^3 +....+ 2^n = (2^(n + 1)) - 1
     return (1 << 64) - 1
@@ -48,7 +48,7 @@ def total():
 
 # Left shift bitwise operator.
 
-**2 to the power of n = 1 << n** 
+**2 to the power of n = 1 << n**
 ```python
 >>> 2^0
 1
```

Author: done

# Reasonable solution by calculating power.

```python
def square(number):
    """

>     This Function must return the number of grains on a given square number.

Reviewer: "Function" is not a proper name, and should not be capitalized.  Same thing happens further on as well.

    :return int amount of grains present on the give square number(number).
    """
    if number < 1 or number > 64:
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 2**(number - 1)

def total():
    """
    This Function must return the total number of grains on the chess board.
    :return int total number of grains a chess board can contain.
    """
    # As 2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 + 2^3 +....+ 2^n = (2^(n + 1)) - 1.
    return 2**64 - 1
```

## For function `square(number)` :

As we did `2**(number - 1)` on block one there will be only 1 grain, 2 to the power of 0 equals 1.
On block 2 there will 2 and on block 3 there will be 4 which is equal to 2 to the power of 1, and 2 to the power of 2, respectively.
Hence generalized, **2 to the power of (number-1)**.

## For function `total()` :

There is a general formula : 
**2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 + 2^3 +....+ 2^n = (2^(n + 1)) - 1**.

# Solution using bitwise left operator.

```python
def square(number):
    if number < 1 or number > 64:
        raise ValueError("square must be between 1 and 64")
    else:
        return 1 << number - 1 

> 

Reviewer: Extra newline here.  Probably not desired.

Reviewer: Also attend to trailing white space.

```python
def square(number):
    """
    This Function must return the number of grains on a given square number.

>     :parama: int square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :param: int square number on which we want to calculate the amount of grains.
```

    #as 2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+....2^n=(2^(n+1))-1
    return 2<<(64)-1
```
### Left shift bitwise operator

> **2 power n = 1<<n**

Reviewer: Space around the operators make for easier reading.

```suggestion
**2 power n = 1 << n** 
```

```python

> >>> 2^0
> 1
> >>> 1<<0  # 1<<1  in binary -> 1
> 1
> >>> 2^1
> 2
> >>> 1<<1 # 1<<1  in binary -> 1 0
> 2
> >>> 2^2
> 4
> >>> 1<<2 # 1<<1  in binary -> 1 0 0
> 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>>> 2^0
1
>>> 1 << 0  # 1 <<1   in binary -> 1
1
>>> 2^1
2
>>> 1 << 1 # 1 << 1  in binary -> 1 0
2
>>> 2^2
4
>>> 1 << 2 # 1 << 1  in binary -> 1 0 0
4
```
